---
title: "Koopman operator and its approximations for systems with symmetries"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2019-09-30-koopman
excerpt: 'We study the effect of symmetries of a dynamical system on Koopman operator and its approximations, euch as EDMD.'
paperurl: 'https://aip.scitation.org/doi/full/10.1063/1.5099091'
---

<a href='http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper3.pdf'>Download paper here</a>

Nonlinear dynamical systems with symmetries exhibit a rich variety of behaviors, often described by complex attractor-basin portraits and
enhanced and suppressed bifurcations. Symmetry arguments provide a way to study these collective behaviors and to simplify their analysis.
The Koopman operator is an innite dimensional linear operator that fully captures a system’s nonlinear dynamics through the linear evolution
of functions of the state space. Importantly, in contrast with local linearization, it preserves a system’s global nonlinear features. We demonstrate how the presence of symmetries aects the Koopman operator structure and its spectral properties. In fact, we show that symmetry
considerations can also simplify nding the Koopman operator approximations using the extended and kernel dynamic mode decomposition
methods (EDMD and kernel DMD). Specically, representation theory allows us to demonstrate that an isotypic component basis induces
a block diagonal structure in operator approximations, revealing hidden organization. Practically, if the symmetries are known, the EDMD
and kernel DMD methods can be modied to give more ecient computation of the Koopman operator approximation and its eigenvalues,
eigenfunctions, and eigenmodes. Rounding out the development, we discuss the eect of measurement noise.

Your Name, You. (2015). "Paper Title Number 3." <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(3).