---
title: "Decoupled synchronized states in networks of linearly coupled limit cycle oscillators"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2020-06-11-decoupled
excerpt: 'Salova, A., & D'Souza, R. M. (2020). Decoupled synchronized states in networks of linearly coupled limit cycle oscillators. arXiv preprint arXiv:2006.06163.'
date: 2020-06-11
---

Networks of limit cycle oscillators can show intricate patterns of synchronization such as splay states and cluster synchronization. Here we analyze dynamical states that display a continuum of seemingly independent splay clusters. Each splay cluster is a block splay state consisting of sub-clusters of fully synchronized nodes with uniform amplitudes. Nodes within a splay cluster have a strictly defined phase difference, but nodes in different splay clusters have an arbitrary phase difference that can be fixed or evolve linearly in time. Such coexisting splay state clusters are an example of a decoupled state in that the dynamical equations of motion of the system lead to an effective decoupling between oscillators that can be physically coupled. We provide the conditions that allow the existence of particular decoupled states by using the eigendecomposition of the coupling matrix. Unlike previous studies, our approach is applicable to the cases when the existence does not follow from symmetries alone. Additionally, we provide an algorithm to search for admissible decoupled states using the external equitable partition and orbital partition considerations and illustrate the differences between adjacency and Laplacian coupling. We demonstrate the diversity of decoupled states arising under these requirements and show how the linear stability analysis of such states can be simplified by taking into account the symmetries of the Jacobian matrix. These symmetries go beyond the automorphism group generating fully synchronized clusters. The examples analyzed herein expand beyond all-to-all coupling and ring coupling. For instance, we show that a variety of qualitatively different decoupled states can arise on two dimensional lattices of oscillators.